=head1 NAME

ponymix - CLI volume control and stream management for PulseAudio

=head1 SYNOPSIS

ponymix [options] [operation] [args]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

ponymix is a command line volume control and stream manager for PulseAudio, allowing you to perform many operations on sinks and sources of both devices and applications.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-d,> --device

Control input and output devices.

=item B<-a,> --app

Control the playback and recording streams.

=item B<-o[=SINK],> --sink[=SINK], --output[=SINK]

Specify the device sink or application output stream to control.  If the argument is omitted, the default sink is used.  SINK must be the numeric index of the sink.

=item B<-i[=SOURCE],> --source[=SOURCE], --input[=SOURCE]

Specify the device source or application input stream to control.  If the argument is omitted, the default source is used.  SOURCE must be the numeric index of the source.

When neither -o nor -i are specified, the default source is used.  When neither -d nor -a are specified, ponymix will operate on devices.

=back

=head1 OPERATIONS

When invoked without an operation, ponymix will display information on the current default sink and source in device mode or active streams in application mode.

=head2 Common Operations

=over 4

=item list

List all available sinks and sources in device mode or inputs and outputs in application mode.

=item get-volume

Gets the current volume of the targe.

=item set-volume VALUE

Sets the volume of the target.  VALUE is an integer between 0 and 150.

=item increase VALUE

Increases the volume of target device or application by integer VALUE.  Increasing the volume with this method is capped at 100.

=item decrease VALUE

Decreases the volume of target device or application by integer VALUE.  Decreasing the volume with this method is capped at 0.

=item mute, unmute, toggle

Mutes, unmutes, or toggles the mute status on the target.

=item is-muted

Checks if the target is muted.  ponymix will exit with status 0 if muted and non-zero otherwise.

=item get-balance

Get the current balance of the target.

=item set-balance VALUE

Set the balance of the target.  VALUE is an integer from -100 (full left) to 100 (full right).

=item adj-balance VALUE

Adjust balance by the integer increment VALUE.  The resulting balance has the same bounds as those set by set-balance.  The end-of-options indicator (--) is required when passing a negative increment.

=back

=head2 Device Operations

=over 4

=item defaults

Display the current default sink and source.

=item set-default DEVICE_INDEX

Set the default sink or source by numeric index, depending on whether -i or -o are set.

=back

=head2 Application Operations

=over 4

=item move APP_INDEX DEVICE_INDEX

Move the application's stream by numeric index to another device by numeric index; ponymix controls outputs if -o is set and inputs if -i is set.

=item kill APP_INDEX

Kill an application's stream by numeric index.

=back

=head1 AUTHORS

Dave Reisner E<lt>dreisner@archlinux.orgE<gt>

Simon Gomizelg E<lt>simongmzlj@gmail.comE<gt>

=head1 SEE ALSO

pulseaudio(1)
